# CRUD Quiz

Use the solution to this afternoon's Property Tracker lab to answer the following questions. Please write your answers under each question, push the file to GitHub, and submit in the usual way.

## MVP Questions

In our Property Tracker application:

Q1. Where are we instantiating instances of the `Property` class?
      console.rb

Q2. Where are we defining the SQL that enables us to save the ruby `Property` object into the database?
      def save() # CREATE
      db = PG.connect({dbname: 'property_tracker', host: 'localhost'})
      sql = "INSERT INTO properties
      (
        address,
        value,
        bedrooms,
        build
      )
      VALUES
      (
        $1,$2,$3,$4
      )
      RETURNING id"
      values = [@address, @value, @bedrooms, @build]
      db.prepare("save", sql)
      @id = db.exec_prepared("save", values)[0]["id"].to_i
      db.close()
      end

Q3. In `console.rb`, which lines modify the database?
      property1.save()

Q4. Why do we not define the id of a `Property` object at the point we instantiate it (‘new it up’)?
      The database creates the objects id when it is created in the table.

Q5. Where and how do we assign the id (that is generated by the database) to the ruby `Property` object?
      We have the database return the id back to ruby once the object has been created in the database.

Q6. Why do we put a guard (an `if` clause) on the `@id` attribute in the constructor?
      So that when creating a new entry it does not error back as the id would be nil.

Q7. Why are some of the CRUD actions represented by instance methods, and others by class methods?
      Instance methods are used when the method is for use on a individual object and a class method is used for multiple objects.

Q8. What type of data structure is returned by calls to `db.exec_prepared()`? In the `save` method, how do we access the id from the returned data structure?
      It is an array that is returned and to retreve the returned id we have to use [0] to reach into the array.

Q9. Why do we use prepared statements when performing database operations?
      To prevent a SQL injection attacks.

## Extension Questions

Look at the `find_by_id` and `find_by_address` methods in the `Property` class.

Q10. What do they take in as their arguments?
      The 'find_by_id' takes in an id number and the 'find_by_address' takes in an address for an argument.

Q11. What are their return values?
      The return a hash within an array.
